---
title: "Devlog - #1 Custom Pokémon Emerald Hack"
date: 2024-07-09 16:00:00 +/-TTTT
categories: [Devlogs, Pokémon]
tags: [TAG]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
description: Old devlog from a project I dropped.
toc: true
comments: false
media_subpath: /assets/img/
---


# Devlog 1

---

## Introduction
This is an old devlog from a project I ended up dropping.
The reason I dropped the project was mainly due to a lack of interest anymore. At a certain point it became less of a learning project and more just something I was doing. So I decided to move onto other things, including a detour into Rust Programming and Game Development.

## Current Progress

### Gym Leader Teams

I've been mainly focused on editing the gym leaders and their teams at the moment. This has proved to be quite a challenge.

I have also been editing the AI flags for all the gym leaders to make them smarter, but I will still test and see what I like and don't like.

While testing, I play with my own nuzlocke rules, so most of the gyms are going to have small traps and force the player to get creative and problem solve. But at the end of the day, it should be fun for casual players, not just experts. By no means am I an expert; I'm just aiming to create more of a challenge.

#### Roxanne

My first Roxanne team was totally busted with a Mega Drain Lileep that was basically unkillable. After testing battles and available team comps for a while, I decided to remove health gain abilities completely. I still think Lileep is one of the coolest Rock types in the game and adds an extra layer of depth to the player's team composition.

Geodude still feels like a lazy choice on my part, but for now, it's okay. I added Self-Destruct and the "WILL-SUICIDE" flag to Roxanne just in case players get too comfortable. I will also add the Sturdy ability to make Self-Destruct proc more often, because at the moment, Lotad can still sweep, along with most of the Water Pokémon up to this point in the game.

**Current Team:**
- **Geodude (Lv. 12)**
  - Nature: Adamant
  - Moves: Tackle, Defense Curl, Self-Destruct, Rock Tomb

- **Nosepass (Lv. 12)**
  - Nature: Impish
  - Held Item: Oran Berry
  - Moves: Tackle, Harden, Thunder Wave, Rock Tomb

- **Lileep (Lv. 15)**
  - Nature: Calm
  - Held Item: Oran Berry
  - Moves: Wrap, Rock Tomb, Astonish, Confuse Ray

- **Larvitar (Lv. 15)**
  - Nature: Jolly
  - Held Item: Hard Stone
  - Moves: Payback, Bite, Sandstorm, Rock Tomb

#### Brawly

Again with Brawly, the first team I made for him was ridiculously tough. It took me an hour to find a team that could actually beat him using the Mons available this early in the game. It was possible to beat him, but when testing with my Nuzlocke rules and the available Pokémon, they were no match.

His first team had a Level 16 Hawlucha (level cap at this point is 19) with Mold Breaker, across-the-board Level 20 IVs, and moves like Hone Claws and Wing Attack. Additionally, if I switched into my Spearow (the only Flying type I had at that point), Brawly would immediately switch into the Rapid Strike Urshifu, which I initially thought was balanced (yes, I gave Brawly one of the best Fighting Pokémon in the game before the player could even evolve most of their Pokémon).

I ended up beating Brawly by baiting the Urshifu switch with Spearow, then switched into Buizel and used Soak to change its typing to Water and abused Urshifu with my Mega Drain Lombre. But even after beating him, I don't think the second gym should force the player to nearly wipe their entire team over two Pokémon.

After this Brawly experience, I have decided to take a new approach to my gym designing. I will choose the Pokémon and their abilities first, then test it. If the testing goes well but is still too easy (e.g., one Mon can wipe the gym), then I will add items and focus on IVs/EVs. If it is still too easy, then I will re-evaluate the team composition.

**Current Team:**
- **Timburr (Lv. 16)**
  - Nature: Brave
  - Ability: Guts
  - Moves: Focus Punch, Rock Throw, Bulk Up

- **Hitmonlee (Lv. 16)**
  - Nature: Jolly
  - Ability: Unburden
  - Moves: Low Sweep, Double Kick, Fake Out, Bulk Up

- **Kubfu (Lv. 16)**
  - Nature: Adamant
  - Ability: Inner Focus
  - Held Item: Oran Berry
  - Moves: Rock Smash, Leer, Endure, Focus Energy

- **Hawlucha (Lv. 18)**
  - Nature: Adamant
  - Ability: Mold Breaker
  - Held Item: Black Belt
  - Moves: Wing Attack, Low Kick, Detect, Aerial Ace

### Gift Pokémon

To further help players, I have decided to add gift Pokémon to all of the Poké Centers in towns where there is a gym. The Pokémon won't always be something that can help them beat the gym but serves more as an extra reward.

My decision-making around what Pokémon to gift is based on a couple of things:
1. **Rarity**: Pokémon that aren't seen often or don't feature on any of the routes.
2. **Wow Factor**: This is purely subjective. I have chosen many of the Pokémon purely based on my personal preference. This was also a big factor in how I designed the gyms.
3. **Typing**: I am a big fan of dual typing and appreciate how much types can influence a Pokémon's usability. Along with this, if a specific type is rare in the section of the game, I try to include them as a gift. Like in Dewford, I gift a Bronzor because the only other Psychic type you can get before then is Abra, and let's be honest, sometimes sneezing too hard might kill your Abra.

- **Rusboro Pokécenter 2F**: Eevee - A great Pokémon in all stages of the game; you can evolve it early or hold on to it for when you need a type later in the game. Plus, it's a fan favorite.
- **Dewford Pokécenter 2F**: Bronzor - Legit one of my favorite Pokémon. I had one in my Storm Silver Nuzlocke named "Plate" that saved my run on more than one occasion.
- **Mauville Pokécenter 2F**: Larvitar - I never seem to have enough Ground-type Pokémon. Also, the Larvitar evolution line is fantastic. Great design, tough typing (what isn't it weak to), and growing up, I had all three evolutions as cards.
- **Lavaridge Pokécenter 2F**: Dreepy - I recently watched Pokémon Journeys with my kids and saw this Pokémon for the first time. The fact that it is a Dragon + Ghost type from its first stage makes it even cooler. This is definitely not an early-game Mon as it only evolves at level 50, but it will help tons late game.

### What's Next

#### Wattson

I do currently have a Wattson team, but it's untested. I also need to decide what item to reward the player with when they beat him.

#### Route Adjustments

To ensure a balanced and enjoyable experience, I'm evaluating the Pokémon available on the routes leading up to each gym. One of my personal favorites, Hawlucha, will be added to the routes after Brawly. This powerful Flying/Fighting type will provide an exciting option for players as they progress.

#### Gym Info Signs

I have been adding additional information to the signs outside each gym with things like type matchups and tips to deal with the leader's ace Pokémon, which (most of the time) has a type that is contrary to the conventional weaknesses for that gym's type, like Lileep, who isn't weak to Water types.
